# Problem Set 2

I include the answers for all five questions in the pdf file named "PS2_Answer", which is inside the Result folder. There is also a editable lyx file in it. In the matlab code folder, there are three code file. VFIdeterministic.m is based on the initial code given by Professor, and I updated the code for solving the question with uncertainty and ploting, so it is a vectorization method; Simulation.m is for question 4, and gives the adjusted A value; loops.m is the alternative way to solve the model using loops. The graph folder includes the plotting for question 2 and 3, directly generated by MATLAB, and the screen shots for the timing of two method(loops and vectorization). The original problem set is placed in the Problem Set folder.

The result finds that the value function is concave and increasing in K for both states, and the policy function has the same property for both states as well. Besides, the policy function for high states is larger than low states through the K domain. Saving does not follow these property, but only has a similar trend, however, low state saving is generally lower.

Simulation shows that the Al = 0.995, Ah = 1.0016 will result in a standard deviation less than 1.8%. To simulate the sequence, I generate it through Bernoulli random generation, using transition matrix as the probablity parameter. Given the current state i, next period is generate from Bernoulli(1,Pii). If random generation comes out 0, the state changes; if 1, the state keeps into next period.

By timing the execution of loops.m and VFIdeterministic.m, VFIdeterministic.m much faster (1117s for loop.m, and 25.7s for VFIdeterministic.m).
